For 20 år siden skulle du folde store kort ud og håbe, at du kunne folde dem sammen igen efterfølgende, når du skulle planlægge en længere cykeltur. 

Idag så har du helt andre muligheder. Du har hele verden lige foran dig med ganske enkelte klik. Lige fra brugeroprettede ruter til apps, hvor du selv kan egne nøjagtigt, hvor du gerne vil hen. Der er mange måder at planlægge ruten for din cykeltur i dag. 

Uanset om du vil køre på stier eller veje, så har vi et par enkelte råd, inden du begynder og hvilke værktøjer og ressourcer, du kanbruge til at finde ruter og planlægge overnatning.

## Trin til din første rute

These steps assume that you have perused existing touring routes either on the Adventure Cycling interactive maps or on other websites and applications and not found what you're looking for in a route. 

Determine your style of touring and the terrain you want to ride.
Decide the region you want to ride in and when.
Explore the region with maps and online mapping tools.
Take into account traffic, road or trail conditions, and elevation when planning distance.
Gather navigation tools and know how to use them.
Plan out your days, nights, and side trips!
Plan & Navigate with Maps
Maps are indispensable aids for both planning and executing tours. Really, for both practical and safety reasons, one should have a better awareness of what lay off and around the designated route (doubly true when bikepacking in remote areas), which is difficult to get in an app. Bigger maps, not surprisingly, give a better idea of the bigger picture than do the GPS maps on handhelds and other electronic devices.

Plus, there’s nothing better for show-and-tell than a big old fold-out map with your route highlighted. Then, at that barbecue back home, you can show the folks where you bicycled, and what happened in this town, and in that park. 

Resource: DeLorme Atlas & Gazetteer Paper Maps
Large paper booklets for each state, featuring details of all types of roads. Great for planning, a pain to tote along on a bicycle trip.

Plan & Navigate with Apps
That said, the technology available today for route planning and navigating is incredible, and it will only improve as time marches on and connectivity improves.

The quality and usability of web and mobile route planning applications will vary based on where you plan to tour. Some applications have maps only for certain continents. Others might not include trails or paths. And some web applications may not have a corresponding app or might not have downloadable data for the route you planned, rendering them nil as far as navigation goes. 

The following chart compares features of some major bicycle route planning websites, including whether they have corresponding mobile applications.

Site Name	Cost	Route Planning	Elevation Profile	GPX Track	Track Suggestion	Mobile App
Alltrails	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
BikeMap	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
BikeRoll	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No
Brouter	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
ByCycle	Free	Yes	No	No	No	No
cycle.travel	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	No
GraphHopper	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No
Judise	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
komoot	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Mapmyride	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
MileMeter	Free	No	Yes	Yes	No	No
MyCycleTour	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	No
Naviki	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	Yes
Plotaroute	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
RideWithGPS	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
RouteYou	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
SportRoutePlanner	Free	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No
Strava	Freemium	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	Yes
Veloroutes	Free	No	No	Yes	No	No
We recommend using a combination of paper maps and digital information to plan your own bicycle touring route.

Find The Perfect Distance for Your Tour

Route Find As You Go?
It’s still possible to pick one’s route as you go, turning left at one junction and right at the next. It can lead to lots of adventure — but not always of the good kind, such as running into narrow, car-clogged roads you wouldn’t want to ride on. With 325 million people in the U.S. in 2018 compared to 225 million in 1980, there are just a lot more cars on the roads.

Other Resources 
Adventure Cycling Association Forum
A fantastic place to find route suggestions, ways to navigate those routes, and tips from experienced bicycle travelers that you won't find elsewhere. 

Accommodation Resources
HipCamp
An aggregation website of unique and standard camping opportunities for any budget.

Warmshowers
The preeminent house-stay website for bike touring. Bicycle enthusiasts open their homes to traveling bicyclists all over the country. 

Our best articles, once a month, in your inbox.
First Name
First Name
 Email Address
Email
 
Things to Consider
Whether using maps, apps, or a combination, try to find the elevation profile of the route you're considering. A lot of big climbs and descents make for more difficult, but sometimes more interesting, biking.

Keep in mind the distance between services and water refill opportunities. 

Consider the road conditions of the route. Is the road busy, does it have adequate shoulder, is this road heavily used by trucks? This is where having the first-hand account of a bike traveler who has ridden that particular route can come in very handy. Check out our Forums for a world of expert route advice.

https://www.adventurecycling.org/blog/how-to-create-your-own-touring-route/